+++
author = "Raja Kesari"
title = "Accounts In Ethereum Context"
date = "2021-01-27T10:00:51"
description = "The concept of Account in Ethereum"
tags = [
    "Ethereum Concepts",
    "Basics",

]
categories = [
    "Ethereum",
    "Concepts",
]
series = ["Ethereum Concepts"]
aliases = ["Ethereum"]
+++

The concept of Blockchain it self is based on change of the state, to be precise “storing of every state change”. We can call this state-changing “action” a “transaction”. To do these transactions there has to be some entities which can be recognized by the blockchain in our case Ethereum. Let’s call these entities “Accounts”. The Ethereum blockchain recognize these “entities that are capable of doing transactions”(We just named them as Accounts) with their Address.
<!--more-->
                
>What is this Address and where it is?

The Ethereum will only be able to “capture’ the state-change. It does not have a database where all the accounts created are stored nor it has a defined address space from where a unique address is assigned to you when you create an account.

Either you provide your address(a 20byte string preceded by 0x) or the ethereum random generates an address(a 40 byte string preceded by 0x).

>What are these strings?

Before knowing that, let’s realize that accounts are two types. The Address given by you(lets generalize ‘you’ as user) or an address generated by Ethereum 

2 types of Accounts:
User provided - In Eth World these are called as EOA - Externally Owned Account’
Eth generated - Contract Accounts - Created by ’Smart Contracts’ within Eth Blockchain 

Generate a public-private key pair and use the last 20 bytes of hex data from your public key as the address. The 20 byte string in the Externally Owned Account is nothing but the last 20 bytes of your public preceded by 0x.

Coming to Address of Contract Account, for now we don’t have to know much except that it is a 40 byte hex data preceded by 0x. 

Continue to Accounts - Part 2

Account: Address ==> Account state(Nonce, Balance, storage, CodeHash)
How smart contract address is derived 
 
...

